{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset134 PingFangSC-Regular;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;\f4\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;\f5\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;
\f6\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green55\blue78;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;
\red255\green255\blue11;\red208\green208\blue208;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c5882\c27843\c38039;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c85098\c85098\c85098;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat2\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
From Postoperative Rescue to Precision Prevention: Reframing Crohn\'92s Disease After Surgery Through the Immune\'96Ecological Remodelling Window
\f1\fs53\fsmilli26667 \

\f0\fs32 Abstract
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Postoperative recurrence remains one of the central unsolved problems in Crohn\'92s disease (CD). Despite biologic advances, up to 70\'9680% of patients develop endoscopic recurrence within the first postoperative year, and a substantial proportion ultimately require repeat surgery. In 2019, the UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) identified major evidence gaps regarding the role of enteral nutrition (EN) in maintaining postoperative remission, particularly its benefits, risks and cost-effectiveness. Seven years later, the field has generated its first randomised postoperative EN trials, expanded microbiome and multi-omic profiling capabilities, and introduced biologic prophylaxis strategies such as vedolizumab supported by high-quality evidence. Yet these developments have not resolved the central conceptual problem. Postoperative CD is still managed within a fragmented therapeutic architecture in which surgery, biologics, nutrition and surveillance are treated as independent domains.
\f2 \

\f0 Here, we argue that postoperative CD should instead be conceptualised as a finite period of immune\'96ecological instability during which microbial recolonisation, epithelial barrier repair and mucosal immune reprogramming collectively determine long-term disease trajectory. We define this period as the postoperative immune\'96ecological remodelling window (PIERW). Within this framework, nutritional therapy functions not merely as caloric support or adjunctive therapy, but as ecosystem engineering capable of reshaping microbial and metabolic recovery after resection. We further propose a stratify\'96adapt\'96dynamic (SAD) model integrating multimodal risk prediction, mechanism-matched biologic deployment, nutritional modulation and AI-enabled surveillance.
\f2 \

\f0 This Perspective critically reassesses the NICE 2019 research agenda in light of 2019\'962026 evidence. We examine why enteral nutrition produces stronger endoscopic than symptomatic benefit, why adherence rather than toxicity has emerged as the principal limiting factor, and why conventional health technology assessment (HTA) frameworks inadequately capture the longitudinal value of integrated postoperative prevention. Finally, we outline a next-generation research agenda centred on dynamic risk modelling, mechanism-based adaptive trials, precision nutrition and patient-centred outcome integration. We argue that the future of postoperative CD management lies not in increasingly aggressive rescue strategies, but in precision prevention during the immune\'96ecological remodelling window.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Introduction: The unresolved paradox of postoperative Crohn\'92s disease
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Intestinal resection remains unavoidable for a large proportion of patients with Crohn\'92s disease despite the biologic era. Contemporary cohorts continue to demonstrate that approximately half of patients require surgery within 10 years of diagnosis, while postoperative endoscopic recurrence develops in the majority of patients within the first year after ileocolonic resection. Although surgery removes macroscopic disease, it rarely restores immunological normality. The neoterminal ileum rapidly reacquires inflammatory features, often before symptoms emerge, highlighting the disconnect between clinical remission and biological recurrence.
\f2 \

\f0 The 2019 NICE guideline on Crohn\'92s disease management identified this disconnect indirectly through Recommendation NG129/1, which asked whether enteral nutrition could safely and cost-effectively maintain remission after surgery. At the time, the committee found no randomised controlled trial (RCT) evidence addressing postoperative enteral nutrition. Existing evidence was extrapolated largely from induction-remission studies or observational maintenance cohorts. Biologic evidence was also limited, heterogeneous and economically uncertain. Consequently, postoperative management became dominated by pragmatic but conceptually fragmented approaches: thiopurine prophylaxis in some centres, anti-TNF escalation in high-risk patients, surveillance endoscopy at 6\'9612 months, and nutritional interventions used inconsistently and often empirically.
\f2 \

\f0 Seven years later, the evidence landscape has evolved substantially. The REPREVIO trial has established vedolizumab as an effective postoperative prophylactic strategy. Randomised postoperative enteral nutrition trials have finally emerged. Multi-omic studies have characterised microbiome recolonisation patterns associated with recurrence. AI-assisted imaging and predictive modelling are increasingly feasible. Yet the central problem identified by NICE remains unresolved because the original question was framed too narrowly.
\f2 \

\f0 The critical issue is not simply whether enteral nutrition works. Rather, the field must confront a deeper biological and systems-level question: what determines whether the postoperative intestine re-establishes tolerance or re-enters chronic inflammation?
\f2 \

\f0 We argue that postoperative Crohn\'92s disease should be reframed as a transient but biologically decisive immune\'96ecological state. This state is characterised by epithelial vulnerability, microbial instability and immune reprogramming following surgical resection. Within this period, interventions that modify luminal ecology, mucosal immunity and barrier repair may fundamentally alter disease trajectory.
\f2 \

\f0 We define this finite interval as the postoperative immune\'96ecological remodelling window (PIERW).
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Surgery is not a reset: the biology of postoperative recurrence
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Traditional postoperative paradigms implicitly assume that surgery returns the intestine to a near-normal baseline from which recurrence subsequently develops. However, accumulating evidence suggests that surgery instead creates a highly unstable ecological niche.
\f2 \

\f0 Immediately after ileocolonic resection, the neoterminal ileum undergoes rapid microbial recolonisation. This recolonisation is not random. Studies have demonstrated that early recurrence correlates with specific microbial signatures, including depletion of butyrate-producing organisms such as Faecalibacterium prausnitzii and enrichment of pro-inflammatory taxa. At the same time, epithelial barrier integrity remains incomplete. Tight-junction proteins are dysregulated, epithelial permeability increases, and local innate immune activation persists despite removal of visible lesions.
\f2 \

\f0 The postoperative intestine therefore exists in a state of incomplete immunological resolution. Histological studies demonstrate persistent plexitis, mast-cell infiltration and altered cytokine signatures at the anastomotic margin even in patients who appear clinically well. Transcriptomic analyses of resection specimens further suggest that recurrence-prone patients already possess distinct molecular programmes at the time of surgery.
\f2 \

\f0 This biological state is dynamic rather than static. During the first 3\'966 months after surgery, microbial composition, epithelial repair and immune activation co-evolve. By 12 months, however, inflammatory architecture becomes increasingly stabilised. Once endoscopic recurrence is established, fibrotic remodelling and mesenteric immune activation may become progressively more difficult to reverse.
\f2 \

\f0 Current postoperative management strategies fail to align with this temporal biology. In routine practice, biologics are often initiated \cb5 reactively after endoscopic recurrence has already occurred\cb1 . Surveillance relies heavily on ileocolonoscopy at 6\'9612 months, by which point the opportunity for preventive ecological modulation may already have narrowed.
\f2 \

\f0 The concept of PIERW reframes postoperative recurrence as a failure of remodelling rather than simply a failure of suppression.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Enteral nutrition as ecosystem engineering
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 The original NICE research recommendation implicitly treated enteral nutrition as a pharmacological substitute \'97 an alternative maintenance therapy to be compared against immunomodulators or biologics. This framing underestimated the unique biological role of nutritional therapy.
\f2 \

\f0 Exclusive enteral nutrition (EEN) does not act primarily through immunosuppression. Instead, it reshapes luminal ecology. Formula-based feeding reduces exposure to dietary emulsifiers, food additives and poorly characterised antigenic compounds that may destabilise epithelial integrity and microbial composition. Concurrently, EEN modifies bile acid metabolism, short-chain fatty acid production and microbial substrate availability.
\f2 \

\f0 The emerging literature suggests that the therapeutic signal of enteral nutrition derives less from calorie provision than from ecological restructuring.
\f2 \

\f0 This concept helps explain several otherwise puzzling observations. First, EEN often achieves stronger endoscopic than symptomatic benefit. Endoscopic recurrence reflects mucosal biology, microbial interaction and epithelial injury more directly than symptoms, which may remain absent until advanced inflammation develops. Second, partial enteral nutrition (PEN) appears to exhibit a dose\'96response relationship: the greater the proportion of calories replaced by formula, the larger the apparent reduction in recurrence risk. This finding is more consistent with ecological modulation than simple nutritional supplementation.
\f2 \

\f0 Recent postoperative trials reinforce this interpretation. The randomised trial combining azathioprine with three months of EEN demonstrated substantial reductions in endoscopic recurrence compared with azathioprine alone. However, symptomatic outcomes were less impressive, and quality of life deteriorated during the EEN phase. This divergence is not evidence against biological efficacy. Rather, it highlights the tension between mechanistic benefit and behavioural feasibility.
\f2 \

\f0 Indeed, the principal limitation of EEN has emerged not as toxicity but as adherence.
\f2 \

\f0 Unlike thiopurines or systemic corticosteroids, enteral nutrition has minimal intrinsic physiological toxicity. Serious adverse events are uncommon and generally reflect underlying disease activity rather than nutritional intervention itself. However, prolonged liquid-only diets impose substantial psychosocial burden, particularly in adults. Social isolation, altered eating behaviour and reduced treatment acceptability contribute to discontinuation.
\f2 \

\f0 This insight fundamentally changes the interpretation of the NICE 2019 \'93risk\'94 question. The dominant risk of enteral nutrition is not pharmacological harm but implementation failure.
\f2 \

\f0 Consequently, the field has shifted toward less restrictive ecological strategies. Cyclic EEN, PEN-based maintenance approaches and Crohn\'92s Disease Exclusion Diet (CDED)-based protocols attempt to preserve microbial modulation while improving tolerability. Importantly, these strategies align more closely with the concept of ecosystem engineering than with conventional drug substitution.
\f2 \

\f0 Future nutritional therapy should therefore be evaluated according to three dimensions simultaneously:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 1.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 Ecological potency.
\f2 \

\f0 2.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 Behavioural sustainability.
\f2 \

\f0 3.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 Integration with immune-directed therapy.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Beyond \'93top-down\'94 versus \'93step-up\'94: toward mechanism-matched prophylaxis
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 The biologic era has transformed postoperative management but has also exposed new conceptual weaknesses.
\f2 \

\f0 The REPREVIO trial established vedolizumab as an effective strategy for preventing postoperative endoscopic recurrence. Anti-TNF therapy remains highly effective, particularly when initiated early in high-risk patients. Ustekinumab and other biologics have shown promise in observational studies.
\f2 \

\f0 Yet the key unanswered question is no longer whether biologics work.
\f2 \

\f0 It is when they should be initiated, in whom, and according to which biological logic.
\f2 \

\f0 Universal prophylaxis risks overtreatment, unnecessary immunosuppression and escalating healthcare expenditure. Conversely, delayed biologic initiation may permit irreversible transmural injury during clinically silent recurrence.
\f2 \

\f0 Current risk stratification tools remain inadequate for resolving this dilemma. Traditional models rely heavily on smoking status, penetrating phenotype, previous resections and Rutgeerts scoring. Although clinically useful, these systems were developed before contemporary biologic strategies and fail to capture molecular heterogeneity.
\f2 \

\f0 Recent years have seen rapid expansion of multimodal predictive models incorporating:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 plasma microRNA signatures;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 transcriptomic profiling;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 mucosa-associated microbiota composition;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 inflammatory indices;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 histopathological markers such as plexitis;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 AI-derived imaging features.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 These studies collectively suggest that postoperative recurrence is biologically heterogeneous.
\f2 \

\f0 Some patients appear primarily barrier-dominant, characterised by epithelial permeability defects and microbial instability. Others exhibit systemic Th1/Th17-driven immune activation. Still others demonstrate fibrostenotic or mesenteric inflammatory phenotypes.
\f2 \

\f0 This heterogeneity implies that biologic selection should become mechanism-matched rather than empirically sequential.
\f2 \

\f0 We propose a stratify\'96adapt\'96dynamic (SAD) framework.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Baseline stratification
\f2\fs37\fsmilli18667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 At the time of surgery, patients undergo integrated risk assessment combining:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 clinical phenotype;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 surgical characteristics;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 histopathology;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 transcriptomics;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 microbiome diversity;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 biomarker signatures.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Dynamic adaptation
\f2\fs37\fsmilli18667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Instead of fixed treatment assignment, recurrence probability is continuously updated using:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 fecal calprotectin trajectories;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 intestinal ultrasound;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 therapeutic drug monitoring;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 AI-assisted imaging;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 microbiome evolution.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 \cb5 Mechanism-directed intervention
\f2\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs32 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 Barrier-dominant patients may benefit preferentially from gut-selective therapies such as vedolizumab combined with nutritional modulation.
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 Immune-dominant patients may require anti-TNF or IL-12/23-directed approaches.
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 Fibrosis-dominant phenotypes may ultimately require anti-fibrotic strategies once available.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 This model reframes postoperative therapy from static prophylaxis toward adaptive precision prevention.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Nutrition\'96biologic synergy: the emerging frontier
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 One of the most underexplored concepts in postoperative CD is the interaction between nutrition and biologics.
\f2 \

\f0 Historically, nutritional therapy and biologics have been studied in parallel rather than together. Yet biologic response is profoundly influenced by baseline inflammatory state, barrier integrity and microbial composition.
\f2 \

\f0 This raises a central possibility: nutritional modulation may improve biologic efficiency by reshaping the ecological environment into which biologics are introduced.
\f2 \

\f0 Several lines of evidence support this hypothesis.
\f2 \

\f0 First, enteral nutrition reduces inflammatory burden and normalises biomarkers such as CRP and fecal calprotectin. Second, microbiome restructuring may reduce antigenic stimulation and mucosal permeability. Third, nutritional prehabilitation before surgery reduces postoperative complications, suggesting broader immunometabolic benefits.
\f2 \

\f0 Retrospective studies combining biologics with EEN suggest improved transmural healing and reduced repeat surgery compared with biologic monotherapy. Although these studies remain limited and potentially confounded, they support the idea that nutrition may function as a biologic sensitiser.
\f2 \

\f0 This concept becomes particularly important during PIERW.
\f2 \

\f0 If the postoperative intestine represents a transient state of ecological vulnerability, then combined immune modulation and ecological stabilisation may be more effective than either strategy alone.
\f2 \

\f0 We therefore propose that future trials should move beyond drug-versus-drug comparisons and instead evaluate integrated pathway strategies such as:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 vedolizumab plus cyclic PEN;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 anti-TNF plus microbiome-directed dietary modulation;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 preoperative EEN followed by postoperative biologic maintenance;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 AI-guided escalation triggered by ecological instability.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 The central question is no longer \'93which therapy suppresses recurrence?\'94 but \'93which combination most effectively stabilises postoperative remodelling?\'94
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Why endoscopic success and patient experience diverge
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 One of the most important unresolved tensions in postoperative nutrition research is the disconnect between biological efficacy and lived patient experience.
\f2 \

\f0 Postoperative EEN studies consistently demonstrate stronger effects on endoscopic recurrence than on symptomatic remission or quality of life. This discrepancy should not be dismissed as methodological weakness. Rather, it exposes a deeper limitation in current treatment paradigms.
\f2 \

\f0 Contemporary treat-to-target frameworks prioritise objective inflammation control because symptoms correlate poorly with mucosal disease activity. From a biological perspective, preventing endoscopic recurrence is highly meaningful.
\f2 \

\f0 However, a prevention strategy that substantially worsens social functioning, eating behaviour or psychological wellbeing may prove unsustainable in real-world implementation.
\f2 \

\f0 This creates a paradox:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 the interventions most capable of ecological restructuring may be the least behaviourally tolerable;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 the interventions most tolerable may produce insufficient ecological modification.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 The field therefore requires a new concept of therapeutic efficiency integrating:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 biological control;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 behavioural sustainability;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 patient-valued outcomes.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 Current RCTs remain poorly equipped to capture this complexity. Most postoperative studies prioritise endoscopic recurrence while under-measuring:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 food-related quality of life;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 treatment fatigue;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 social burden;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 long-term adherence;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 patient preference;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 functional recovery.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 This omission is particularly problematic for health technology assessment.
\f2 \

\f0 NICE\'92s original research recommendation explicitly asked about cost-effectiveness, yet most postoperative nutritional studies still lack preference-based utility measures such as EQ-5D-5L. Consequently, the field can demonstrate biological activity without fully demonstrating societal value.
\f2 \

\f0 Future trials should therefore incorporate dual-target outcome frameworks:
\f2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Biological outcomes:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1920\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf3 o
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0 
\fs32 endoscopic recurrence;
\f2 \

\f4 o
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0 
\fs32 transmural healing;
\f2 \

\f4 o
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0 
\fs32 biomarker remission.
\f2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Human-centred outcomes:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1920\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf3 o
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0 
\fs32 treatment acceptability;
\f2 \

\f4 o
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0 
\fs32 food-related quality of life;
\f2 \

\f4 o
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0 
\fs32 functional restoration;
\f2 \

\f4 o
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0 
\fs32 work productivity;
\f2 \

\f4 o
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0 
\fs32 long-term adherence.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 Without this integration, even highly effective ecological therapies may fail implementation at population level.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Rethinking surveillance: from episodic endoscopy to continuous monitoring
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Postoperative surveillance remains anchored around ileocolonoscopy at 6\'9612 months. Although endoscopy remains indispensable, this model reflects a fundamentally episodic understanding of recurrence.
\f2 \

\f0 The emergence of AI-enabled multimodal monitoring allows a shift toward dynamic surveillance.
\f2 \

\f0 Intestinal ultrasound (IUS) increasingly demonstrates strong correlation with postoperative recurrence while offering lower burden and repeatability. Home fecal calprotectin platforms permit longitudinal biomarker tracking. AI-assisted endoscopic scoring may improve standardisation and reduce interobserver variability.
\f2 \

\f0 These technologies become particularly powerful when integrated.
\f2 \

\f0 We envision a tiered surveillance architecture:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Tier 1: continuous low-burden monitoring
\f2\fs37\fsmilli18667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs32 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 home fecal calprotectin;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 wearable-derived functional metrics;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 symptom-independent longitudinal data capture.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Tier 2: interval structural assessment
\f2\fs37\fsmilli18667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs32 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 point-of-care intestinal ultrasound;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 AI-assisted inflammatory scoring;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 early transmural change detection.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Tier 3: confirmatory precision endoscopy
\f2\fs37\fsmilli18667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs32 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 AI-enhanced ileocolonoscopy;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 automated Rutgeerts classification;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 molecular sampling of anastomotic tissue.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 Importantly, this approach supports dynamic Bayesian prediction rather than static categorisation.
\f2 \

\f0 Risk is not fixed at surgery.
\f2 \

\f0 Instead, recurrence probability evolves continuously according to ecological, inflammatory and behavioural trajectories.
\f2 \

\f0 Such systems could ultimately allow:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 early escalation in biologically unstable patients;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 de-escalation in immune-quiescent phenotypes;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 reduction of unnecessary prophylaxis.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 The integration of AI into postoperative CD therefore matters less as a technological novelty than as a means of operationalising precision prevention.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Health technology assessment after NICE 2019: why current economic frameworks are insufficient
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 The NICE 2019 committee concluded that biologics lacked sufficient certainty and cost-effectiveness for routine postoperative use, while enteral nutrition lacked direct evidence altogether.
\f2 \

\f0 In retrospect, these conclusions were reasonable within the evidence framework available at the time.
\f2 \

\f0 However, the subsequent evolution of the field exposes important limitations in conventional HTA methodology.
\f2 \

\f0 Traditional HTA models typically evaluate therapies as isolated interventions with relatively short-term endpoints. Yet postoperative Crohn\'92s disease is a longitudinal systems problem.
\f2 \

\f0 The value of nutritional therapy may emerge indirectly through:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 reduction in repeat surgery;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 delayed biologic switching;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 preservation of biologic response;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 reduction in steroid exposure;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 improved nutritional resilience;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 prevention of sarcopenia;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 reduction in healthcare utilisation.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 Similarly, the value of AI-guided monitoring may derive less from improved diagnosis than from preventing delayed escalation.
\f2 \

\f0 Conventional cost-per-QALY frameworks struggle to capture these interacting pathway effects.
\f2 \

\f0 This is especially important because postoperative prevention strategies increasingly function as integrated ecosystems rather than single interventions.
\f2 \

\f0 A patient receiving:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 preoperative nutritional optimisation;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 postoperative vedolizumab;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 cyclic PEN;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 AI-enabled biomarker monitoring;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 ultrasound-guided escalation,
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 cannot easily be analysed within a single-intervention economic model.
\f2 \

\f0 HTA agencies therefore need to evolve from intervention-centric assessment toward pathway-centric assessment.
\f2 \

\f0 Three changes are particularly necessary.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 First, postoperative CD should be treated as a secondary-prevention domain
\f2\fs37\fsmilli18667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 The relevant comparator is not merely placebo or delayed recurrence, but prevention of irreversible bowel damage.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Second, implementation burden must become part of value assessment
\f2\fs37\fsmilli18667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Adherence, dietary burden and psychosocial cost materially affect effectiveness.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Third, integrated strategies should be evaluated as systems
\f2\fs37\fsmilli18667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 The economic value of combined nutritional and biologic approaches may exceed the additive value of individual components.
\f2 \

\f0 This shift mirrors broader transitions in precision medicine, where outcome depends increasingly on orchestration rather than singular therapeutic potency.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0
\cf2 A research agenda for the next decade
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 The central challenge after 2026 is no longer demonstrating that postoperative recurrence occurs or that nutritional therapy has biological effects.
\f2 \

\f0 The challenge is learning how to operationalise precision prevention.
\f2 \

\f0 We propose five priorities.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 1. Mechanism-matched adaptive trials
\f2\fs37\fsmilli18667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Future studies should stratify patients according to biological phenotype rather than randomising heterogeneous populations into uniform interventions.
\f2 \

\f0 Barrier-dominant, immune-dominant and fibrosis-dominant phenotypes may require fundamentally different strategies.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 2. Precision nutrition platforms
\f2\fs37\fsmilli18667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Microbiome and metabolomic profiling should be used to predict responsiveness to:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 EEN;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 PEN;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 CDED;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 biologic\'96nutrition combinations.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 The future of nutritional therapy lies in ecological targeting rather than universal prescription.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 3. Integrated behavioural science
\f2\fs37\fsmilli18667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Adherence should not be treated as a secondary implementation issue.
\f2 \

\f0 Behavioural sustainability is itself a biological determinant because ecological therapies fail if not maintained.
\f2 \

\f0 Digital support platforms, food-behaviour interventions and palatability optimisation deserve formal investigation.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 4. AI-enabled longitudinal prediction
\f2\fs37\fsmilli18667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Dynamic Bayesian models integrating biomarkers, imaging and ecological data should replace static postoperative scoring systems.
\f2 \

\f0 The goal is continuous trajectory prediction rather than episodic classification.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 5. Redefinition of endpoints
\f2\fs37\fsmilli18667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Future postoperative trials should include:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 endoscopic healing;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 transmural healing;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 ecological restoration;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 patient preference;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 functional recovery;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 health economic durability.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 The field requires composite endpoints capable of capturing biological and human sustainability simultaneously.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Conclusion: the future is prevention, not rescue
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 The NICE 2019 research recommendation on postoperative enteral nutrition correctly identified an evidence gap, but the field has since revealed that the true problem was conceptual rather than merely evidentiary.
\f2 \

\f0 Postoperative Crohn\'92s disease is not a stable maintenance phase.
\f2 \

\f0 It is a transient immune\'96ecological remodelling state during which disease trajectory may still be redirected.
\f2 \

\f0 The concept of the postoperative immune\'96ecological remodelling window (PIERW) provides a unifying framework linking:
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 microbiome recolonisation;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 epithelial barrier repair;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 immune reprogramming;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 nutritional modulation;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 biologic deployment;
\f2 \

\f3 \'e1
\f0\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 AI-enabled surveillance.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 Within this framework, enteral nutrition becomes more than adjunctive support. It becomes ecosystem engineering.
\f2 \

\f0 Similarly, biologics become more than rescue agents. They become tools for stabilising remodelling trajectories.
\f2 \

\f0 The future of postoperative CD management will not be defined by increasingly aggressive escalation after recurrence has already emerged.
\f2 \

\f0 It will be defined by the ability to identify which postoperative ecosystem is becoming unstable, intervene before irreversible damage develops, and sustain remission in ways that remain biologically effective, behaviourally tolerable and economically viable.
\f2 \

\f0 The next decade should therefore move beyond the binary question of whether enteral nutrition works.
\f2 \

\f0 The more important question is whether we are finally prepared to treat postoperative Crohn\'92s disease as a precision-prevention problem.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 \'a0
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 References
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-480\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 1.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 NICE. Crohn\'92s disease: management. NICE Guideline NG129 (2019).
\f2 \

\f0 2.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 NICE. Recommendations for research: Crohn\'92s disease management NG129/1 (2019).
\f2 \

\f0 3.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 Peyrin-Biroulet, L. et al.\'a0Vedolizumab for prevention of postoperative recurrence in Crohn\'92s disease: the REPREVIO trial. Lancet Gastroenterol. Hepatol. (2025).
\f2 \

\f0 4.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 Iacucci, M. et al.\'a0Shaping the future of postoperative recurrence in Crohn\'92s disease: personalised approaches with AI-enabled imaging and multi-omics. Gut (2026).
\f2 \

\f0 5.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 Duan, Y. et al.\'a0Exclusive enteral nutrition combined with thiopurine for preventing postoperative recurrence in Crohn\'92s disease: a randomised trial. J. Crohns Colitis (2024).
\f2 \

\f0 6.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 Sokol, H. et al.\'a0Prominence of ileal mucosa-associated microbiota to predict postoperative endoscopic recurrence in Crohn\'92s disease. Gut 69, 462\'96472 (2020).
\f2 \

\f0 7.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 Machiels, K. et al.\'a0Early postoperative endoscopic recurrence in Crohn\'92s disease is characterised by distinct microbiota recolonisation. J. Crohns Colitis 14, 1535\'961546 (2020).
\f2 \

\f0 8.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 Cushing, K. C. et al.\'a0Predicting risk of postoperative disease recurrence in Crohn\'92s disease: transcriptomic profiles at surgery. Inflamm. Bowel Dis. 25, 180\'96193 (2019).
\f2 \

\f0 9.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 
\fs32 Moret-Tatay, I. et al.\'a0Plasma microRNA signatures predicting postoperative Crohn\'92s disease recurrence. Clin. Transl. Gastroenterol. 12, e00416 (2021).
\f2 \

\f0 10.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 Cerrillo, E. et al.\'a0A nomogram integrating fecal calprotectin and cytokine profiles for recurrence prediction. Inflamm. Bowel Dis. 25, 1681\'961691 (2019).
\f2 \

\f0 11.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 Primas, C. et al.\'a0Role of fecal calprotectin in predicting postoperative endoscopic recurrence. Scand. J. Gastroenterol. 56, 1169\'961174 (2021).
\f2 \

\f0 12.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 Auzoux, J. et al.\'a0Confocal laser endomicroscopy for prediction of postoperative recurrence. Gastrointest. Endosc. 90, 151\'96157 (2019).
\f2 \

\f0 13.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 Hern\'e1ndez-Rocha, C. et al.\'a0Predictors of early and late postoperative recurrence following ileocolonic resection. J. Crohns Colitis 18, 615\'96627 (2024).
\f2 \

\f0 14.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 Combined biologics and exclusive enteral nutrition promote early transmural healing and improve long-term outcomes in Crohn\'92s disease. Multicentre retrospective study (2025).
\f2 \

\f0 15.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 Partial enteral nutrition in Crohn\'92s disease: systematic review and meta-analysis. ECCO-JCC (2025).
\f2 \

\f0 16.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 ESPEN practical guideline: Clinical nutrition in inflammatory bowel disease (2024).
\f2 \

\f0 17.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 ECCO Guidelines on Therapeutics in Crohn\'92s Disease: Surgical Treatment (2024).
\f2 \

\f0 18.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 Cyclic exclusive enteral nutrition versus partial enteral nutrition to maintain long-term drug-free remission in paediatric Crohn\'92s disease (CD-HOPE trial) (2025).
\f2 \

\f0 19.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 Gut microbiome and metabolome interactions in Crohn\'92s disease: mechanistic insights into exclusive enteral nutrition-induced remission (2025).
\f2 \

\f0 20.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 Enteral nutrition in adult Crohn\'92s disease: toward a paradigm shift. Nutrients 11, 2222 (2019).
\f2 \

\f0 21.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 Updated 2025 ACG clinical guideline for management of Crohn\'92s disease (2025).
\f2 \

\f0 22.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 PROSPER study (NCT06505304).
\f2 \

\f0 23.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 PREMANE study (NCT05253652).
\f2 \

\f0 24.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 Enteral nutrition versus immunomodulators for induction and maintenance of remission in paediatric Crohn\'92s disease: network meta-analysis (2026).
\f2 \

\f0 25.
\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'a0 
\fs32 Targeted nutritional prehabilitation for high-risk Crohn\'92s disease patients undergoing elective gastrointestinal surgery (2026).
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 \'a0
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 \
\'a0
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Figure Legends (Nature Reviews Gastroenterology & Hepatology style)
\f1\fs53\fsmilli26667 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb6 Figure 1 | The postoperative immune\'96ecological remodelling window (PIERW)
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 \cb6 Ileocolonic resection removes macroscopic inflammatory lesions but initiates a finite period of biological instability during which microbial recolonisation, epithelial repair and mucosal immune reprogramming collectively shape long-term disease trajectory. Within the postoperative immune\'96ecological remodelling window (PIERW; approximately 0\'966 months after surgery), bidirectional interactions among microbiome dynamics, barrier remodelling and immune activation determine whether the neoterminal ileum progresses towards immune homeostasis or recurrent inflammation. Nutritional interventions (exclusive enteral nutrition (EEN), partial enteral nutrition (PEN) and Crohn\'92s disease exclusion diet (CDED)), biologics and AI-enabled surveillance may redirect this remodelling process before irreversible structural recurrence develops. Failed remodelling results in persistent dysbiosis, barrier dysfunction, transmural inflammation and repeat surgery.
\f2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Figure 1 | The three biological phenotypes of the postoperative immune\'96ecological remodelling window (PIERW)
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 After ileocolonic resection, the neoterminal ileum may undergo divergent remodelling trajectories that influence recurrence risk and therapeutic responsiveness. Barrier-dominant PIERW (teal) is characterised by epithelial permeability, tight-junction disruption and depletion of butyrate-producing commensals, potentially favouring ecological and gut-selective therapeutic strategies. Immune-dominant PIERW (amber) is associated with amplified Th1/Th17 signalling, mesenteric inflammation and systemic immune activation, supporting prioritisation of cytokine-directed therapy. Fibrosis-dominant PIERW (purple) is characterised by mesenchymal activation, extracellular matrix remodelling and progressive structural change, suggesting a role for intensive structural surveillance and future anti-fibrotic approaches. The taxonomy proposes that postoperative prevention should be aligned to dominant remodelling biology rather than applied uniformly across patients.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Refined Figure 2 legend (NRGH tone)
\f1\fs53\fsmilli26667 \

\f0\fs32 Figure 2 | The Stratify\'96Adapt\'96Dynamic (SAD) platform architecture during the postoperative immune\'96ecological remodelling window
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Patients undergoing ileocolonic resection are stratified into barrier-dominant, immune-dominant and fibrosis-dominant phenotypes using integrated molecular profiling, microbiome analysis and AI-assisted histopathology. Within each biological stratum, participants undergo mechanism-matched randomisation. Longitudinal Bayesian monitoring integrates intestinal ultrasound, biomarker trajectories and AI-assisted endoscopy to support dynamic treatment adaptation during postoperative remodelling. Trial endpoints span biological, patient-centred and systems-level domains, enabling simultaneous evaluation of mechanistic efficacy, behavioural sustainability and health-system impact.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 \'a0
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Figure 2 | Stratify\'96adapt\'96dynamic (SAD) framework for precision postoperative management
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 A dynamic precision-prevention framework integrating multimodal baseline stratification, adaptive surveillance and mechanism-matched intervention after ileocolonic resection. Clinical phenotype, surgical pathology, transcriptomics, microbiome composition, inflammatory biomarkers and AI-enhanced imaging feed into a continuously updated prediction engine. Patients transition dynamically between immune-quiescent, barrier/ecology-dominant and immune-aggressive trajectories rather than remaining within fixed risk categories. Continuous monitoring through home biomarkers, intestinal ultrasound and AI-assisted endoscopy enables real-time recalibration of recurrence risk and treatment adaptation. The framework reframes postoperative management from static prophylaxis towards longitudinal trajectory control.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 \'a0
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Figure 3 | Reframing enteral nutrition from supportive care to ecosystem engineering
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Western dietary exposure after surgery promotes dysbiosis, epithelial permeability and inflammatory amplification, thereby destabilising postoperative remodelling. By contrast, enteral nutrition-based strategies reshape the postoperative ecosystem through microbiome restoration, metabolic normalisation and barrier repair. Exclusive enteral nutrition (EEN), partial enteral nutrition (PEN), Crohn\'92s disease exclusion diet (CDED)-based approaches and biologic\'96nutrition combination strategies differ in ecological potency and behavioural sustainability. The therapeutic value of nutritional therapy therefore derives not only from nutrient delivery but also from modulation of luminal ecology, microbial diversity and immune\'96barrier interactions.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 \'a0
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Box Legends
\f1\fs53\fsmilli26667 \

\f0\fs32 Box 1 | Mechanistic taxonomy of the postoperative immune\'96ecological remodelling window
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Postoperative Crohn\'92s disease comprises biologically distinct remodelling phenotypes characterised by differential contributions of epithelial dysfunction, immune activation and fibrotic remodelling. Recognition of barrier-dominant, immune-dominant and fibrosis-dominant PIERW phenotypes may enable mechanism-matched prevention strategies rather than uniform postoperative prophylaxis.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 \'a0
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa106\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Box 2 | Adaptive precision-prevention trial design during PIERW
\f1\fs42\fsmilli21333 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf3 Proposed biomarker-stratified adaptive platform trial architecture for postoperative Crohn\'92s disease. Patients are stratified according to dominant biological phenotype immediately after surgery and undergo mechanism-directed randomisation with longitudinal Bayesian risk updating. The framework integrates ecological, immunological, imaging and patient-centred outcomes to evaluate precision-prevention pathways rather than isolated therapeutic interventions.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 \'a0
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs28 \cf3 Box 1 | Clinical vignettes illustrating postoperative immune\'96ecological remodelling window (PIERW) phenotypes
\f2\b0\fs32 \

\f5\b\fs28 Patient A | Barrier-dominant PIERW
\f2\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf3 A 28-year-old woman with inflammatory ileocolonic Crohn\'92s disease (B1 phenotype) undergoes first ileocolic resection with stapled side-to-side anastomosis. Before surgery, she achieved clinical remission with exclusive enteral nutrition (EEN). Histopathology demonstrates relatively preserved mucosal architecture with reduced occludin expression and minimal submucosal inflammatory infiltration. Microbiome profiling reveals low \uc0\u945 -diversity with depletion of 
\f6\i Faecalibacterium prausnitzii
\f0\i0 . At postoperative week 2, faecal calprotectin is modestly elevated (180 \uc0\u956 g g\u8315 \'b9) despite normal CRP concentrations and absence of systemic symptoms.
\f2\fs32 \

\f0\fs28 She is classified as having a barrier-dominant remodelling phenotype and receives vedolizumab combined with cyclical partial enteral nutrition (50% energy replacement). At 6 months, ileocolonoscopy demonstrates Rutgeerts i1 disease, and by 12 months she achieves deep biomarker remission with restoration of microbial diversity.
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs28 \cf3 Biological interpretation
\f2\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf3 Recurrence risk is driven primarily by epithelial dysfunction and ecological instability rather than systemic immune activation.
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs28 \cf3 Potential therapeutic priorities
\f2\b0\fs32 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\fs28 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ecological modulation; 
\f2\fs32 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\fs28 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
barrier restoration; 
\f2\fs32 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\fs28 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
gut-selective immune trafficking blockade. 
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf3 \'a0
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs28 \cf3 Patient B | Immune-dominant PIERW
\f2\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf3 A 34-year-old man with penetrating ileocolonic Crohn\'92s disease (B3 phenotype) undergoes repeat resection following secondary loss of response to adalimumab and prior intra-abdominal abscess formation. Histopathology demonstrates marked mesenteric inflammation (\'93creeping fat\'94) with dense lymphoplasmacytic infiltration and prominent Th1/Th17 transcriptomic activation. Serological testing is positive for ASCA-IgG and anti-OmpC antibodies.
\f2\fs32 \

\f0\fs28 At postoperative week 4, CRP concentration is 28 mg L\uc0\u8315 \'b9 and faecal calprotectin exceeds 1,000 \u956 g g\u8315 \'b9. He is classified as having an immune-dominant remodelling phenotype and commences ustekinumab in combination with azathioprine. Intestinal ultrasound at 3 months shows no transmural inflammatory activity, and 6-month ileocolonoscopy demonstrates Rutgeerts i0 disease.
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs28 \cf3 Biological interpretation
\f2\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf3 Recurrence risk is driven predominantly by persistent adaptive immune activation and mesenteric inflammatory signalling.
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs28 \cf3 Potential therapeutic priorities
\f2\b0\fs32 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\fs28 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
early biologic prophylaxis; 
\f2\fs32 \
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\fs28 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
systemic immune suppression; 
\f2\fs32 \
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\fs28 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
tight inflammatory monitoring. 
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf3 \'a0
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs28 \cf3 Patient C | Fibrosis-dominant PIERW
\f2\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf3 A 42-year-old man with recurrent stricturing jejunoileitis (B2 phenotype) presents with high-grade small-bowel obstruction requiring resection after multiple prior balloon dilations. Histology demonstrates extensive submucosal collagen deposition, elevated profibrotic transcriptomic markers (including 
\f6\i PLOD2
\f0\i0  and 
\f6\i ZFPM2
\f0\i0 ) and dense mast-cell accumulation around the myenteric plexus.
\f2\fs32 \

\f0\fs28 At postoperative month 3, intestinal ultrasound reveals anastomotic wall thickening with increased stiffness on shear-wave elastography despite minimal inflammatory biomarker elevation. He is classified as having a fibrosis-dominant remodelling phenotype and receives ustekinumab with intensive structural surveillance. Six-month endoscopy identifies early asymptomatic anastomotic stenosis requiring prophylactic balloon dilation. He remains surgery-free at 24 months.
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs28 \cf3 Biological interpretation
\f2\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf3 Disease progression is driven primarily by mesenchymal remodelling and structural progression rather than overt inflammatory recurrence.
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs28 \cf3 Potential therapeutic priorities
\f2\b0\fs32 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\f0\fs28 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
structural surveillance; 
\f2\fs32 \
\ls5\ilvl0
\f0\fs28 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
anti-fibrotic strategies; 
\f2\fs32 \
\ls5\ilvl0
\f0\fs28 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
early endoscopic intervention. 
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf3 \'a0
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs28 \cf3 Clinical implication
\f2\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf3 These vignettes illustrate how similar surgical procedures may initiate biologically divergent postoperative trajectories. Under conventional postoperative algorithms, all three patients would typically receive similar surveillance and prophylactic strategies. Within the PIERW framework, however, postoperative management is aligned to the dominant remodelling mechanism \'97 epithelial-barrier instability, adaptive immune activation or fibrotic progression \'97 enabling mechanism-matched prevention rather than uniform prophylaxis.
\f2\fs32 \

\f0\fs28 This shift represents a conceptual transition from static postoperative risk categorisation towards dynamic biological trajectory management.
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl640\sa320\qj\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs28 \cf3 \cb7 \'a0
\f2\b0\fs32 \

\f5\b\fs28 \'a0
\f2\b0\fs32 \

\f5\b\fs28 Box 2 | Adaptive precision-prevention trial architecture during PIERW
\f2\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl520\qj\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs28 \cf3 Trial concept.
\f0\b0  A biomarker-stratified, response-adaptive platform trial enrolling patients immediately after ileocolonic resection, designed to evaluate integrated prevention 
\f6\i ecosystems
\f0\i0  rather than isolated therapies.
\f2\fs32 \

\f5\b\fs28 Step 1 | Baseline biological stratification.
\f0\b0  Participants are classified into barrier-dominant, immune-dominant or fibrosis-dominant phenotypes using a pre-specified multi-omics algorithm integrating: (i) anastomotic histopathology (plexitis, mast-cell density, adipocyte morphology); (ii) mucosal transcriptomics (barrier-function, Th1/Th17 and fibrotic gene modules); (iii) faecal microbiota (alpha-diversity, 
\f6\i F. prausnitzii
\f0\i0  relative abundance); (iv) faecal calprotectin and plasma CRP; and (v) AI-derived imaging signatures from resection specimens.
\f2\fs32 \

\f5\b\fs28 Step 2 | Mechanism-matched randomisation.
\f0\b0  Within each stratum, participants are randomised to mechanism-matched interventions:
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl520\qj\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0
\f6\i\fs28 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Barrier-dominant
\f0\i0 : vedolizumab alone 
\f6\i versus
\f0\i0  vedolizumab plus cyclical partial enteral nutrition (or CDED).
\f2\fs32 \
\ls6\ilvl0
\f6\i\fs28 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Immune-dominant
\f0\i0 : anti-TNF 
\f6\i versus
\f0\i0  ustekinumab, with optional immunomodulator augmentation based on prior exposure.
\f2\fs32 \
\ls6\ilvl0
\f6\i\fs28 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Fibrosis-dominant
\f0\i0 : standard biologic prophylaxis 
\f6\i versus
\f0\i0  biologic plus investigational anti-fibrotic agent (e.g., TGF-\uc0\u946  pathway inhibitor).
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl520\qj\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs28 \cf3 Step 3 | Dynamic adaptation.
\f0\b0  Bayesian adaptive modelling continuously updates individual recurrence probability using longitudinal biomarker trajectories, intestinal ultrasound at 3 and 6 months, and AI-assisted ileocolonoscopy at 6\'9612 months. Pre-specified biomarker thresholds trigger treatment escalation (within-class dose intensification or cross-class switch) or de-escalation (biologic spacing or withdrawal in deep remission), mimicking a closed-loop control system.
\f2\fs32 \

\f5\b\fs28 Step 4 | Integrated endpoints.
\f0\b0  Co-primary endpoints span three domains: (i) 
\f6\i Biological
\f0\i0 \'97Rutgeerts score, transmural healing on intestinal ultrasound, biomarker remission (faecal calprotectin <100 \uc0\u956 g g\u8315 \'b9), and microbiome restoration; (ii) 
\f6\i Human-centred
\f0\i0 \'97EQ-5D-5L utility values, food-related quality of life, treatment burden, adherence durability, and work productivity; and (iii) 
\f6\i Systems-level
\f0\i0 \'97repeat surgery, biologic switching rate, cumulative corticosteroid exposure, and cost per remission-year.
\f2\fs32 \

\f5\b\fs28 Conceptual implication.
\f0\b0  By embedding nutritional, pharmacological and monitoring interventions within a single adaptive architecture, this design moves beyond the binary drug-versus-placebo paradigm and generates the preference-based, cost-effectiveness evidence required by health technology assessment agencies.
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa47\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf3 \cb1 \'a0
\f2 \
}