---
title: "RePORT ⟩ RePORTER"
source: "https://reporter.nih.gov/search/O4V9Ok4qzEKHxo2Q28EsYA/project-details/10874313"
author:
published:
created: 2026-04-22
description:
tags:
  - "clippings"
---
[Skip Navigation Links](#reporter-content)

Identification of human gut microbe-derived xenolipids: impact of fibers and host metabolic health

Project Number1R01DK137173-01A1

Former Number1R01DK137173-01

Contact PI/Project LeaderADAMS, SEAN HARRISON

Awardee Organization

Description

Abstract Text

Project Summary: The nexus between diet, microbiome, and host involves molecular signals and xenometabolites (“non- self” molecules derived from microbial metabolism) that remain largely unmapped. DNA and RNA sequencing technologies have led to major advancements in understanding how abundances of specific gut microbes correlate to health, diet, and *disease*; however, the most important information about microbe-host and microbe-microbe communication will emerge from greater understanding of functional outcomes including microbial xenometabolism. To address this knowledge gap, the current proposal will leverage the diversity of innovative human gut bacterial cultures to expand the catalog of microbial metabolites, which can be screened to characterize binding and bioactivity characteristics relevant to physiology and health. This approach is a direct response to guidance from PAR-21-253, Identification and Characterization of Bioactive Microbial Metabolites for Advancing Research on Microbe-Diet-Host Interactions. Considering the paucity of information related to microbial fat metabolites in particular, our primary focus will be on xenolipid discovery, including (but not limited to) characterization of cyclopropane fatty acids (CpFAs) as an illustrative example of discovery-to-bioactivity proof-of-principle. For instance, the extant literature and our preliminary results indicate that novel odd-chain CpFAs are generated by bacteria harboring CpFA synthase (cfa), with CpFA catabolized by hepato-splanchnic tissues, stored, and released by white adipose tissue. Our data support anti- *inflammatory* effects of some CpFAs, as well as binding of peroxisome proliferator activated receptors (PPARs). The team will leverage human gut microbes cultured with combinations of fiber/complex carbohydrate substrates with or without diet-relevant fats, to drive substrate-specific bacterial communities and associated xenometabolomes. We will—for the first time—comprehensively identify xenolipids and non-lipid metabolite patterns that track the fiber and fatty acid milieu, and that correlate with specific bacterial communities varying in phylogeny. This will expand the library of microbe metabolites and shed light on how dietary components such as fibers and lipids interact to alter the xenometabolome. A complementary aim to interrogate the effects of xenolipids on nuclear receptors, inflammation and GPCR read-outs, and broader effects in gut organoids will link our findings to potential bioactivities, one of the remits of PAR-21-253.

Project Narrative: One’s diet and other factors influence the innate population of gut bacteria (the “microbiota”), which in turn helps shape physiology and health. Specific metabolites that are made by the microbiota are called xenometabolites, which can play communication and signaling roles in the host. Identifying the entire catalog of these molecules, understanding their trafficking and storage, and determining their specific roles is an emerging field of study. This proposal will characterize how unique microbe-derived fats are generated and will explore how these xenolipids regulate physiological systems important to physiology and metabolism.

Project Terms

Details

Name

ADAMS, SEAN HARRISON

Title

PROFESSOR

Contact

Other PIs

Not Applicable

Program Official

Name

LUNSFORD, DWAYNE

Contact

Organization

Name

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT DAVIS

City

DAVIS

Country

UNITED STATES (US)

Department Type

SURGERY

Organization Type

SCHOOLS OF MEDICINE

State Code

CA

Congressional District

04

Other Information

Opportunity Number

[PAR-21-253](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PAR-21-253.html)

Study Section

[Nutrition and Metabolism in Health and Disease Study Section\[NMHD\]](https://public.csr.nih.gov/StudySections/StandingStudySections)

Fiscal Year

2024

Award Notice Date

12-June-2024

Administering Institutes or Centers

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases

Assistance Listing Number

93.847

DUNS Number

047120084

UEI

TX2DAGQPENZ5

Project Start Date

15-June-2024

Project End Date

30-April-2029

Budget Start Date

15-June-2024

Budget End Date

30-April-2025

No Cost Extension

N

Total Funding

$686,679

Direct Costs

$503,550

Indirect Costs

$183,129

<table><tbody><tr><td colspan="1">2024</td><td colspan="1">National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases</td><td colspan="1">$686,679</td></tr></tbody></table>

| NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF DIABETES AND DIGESTIVE AND KIDNEY DISEASES | $686,679 | Clinical Research; Complementary and Integrative Health; Diabetes; Nutrition; Obesity; Dietary Supplements; Microbiome |
| --- | --- | --- |

Publications

Publications are associated with projects, but cannot be identified with any particular year of the project or fiscal year of funding. This is due to the continuous and cumulative nature of knowledge generation across the life of a project and the sometimes long and variable publishing timeline. Similarly, for multi-component projects, publications are associated with the parent core project and not with individual sub-projects.

No Publications available for 1R01DK137173-01A1

History

No Historical information available for 1R01DK137173-01A1